Vlad’s notes

Managers have two ways to elicit performance
training
motivation

Motivation
Can’t be fostered directly, needs an environment
What does this mean? You can literally say this about anything that needs a mediator to act. Of course mgmt actions can affect motivation, even if there’s no “motivation wand” which directly instills motivation.

Needs -> Drives -> Motivation

To understand needs, need to see heirarchy of needs from maslow
<pic of pyramid p160  ch 11>
TODO in-meeting for each need, what needs to be fulfilled?

lower need satisfied, higher takes over.

Peak need: self-actualization. simply need to test their limits. This is strongest to tap into.

Money
money stops being important for its purchasing power after a base level
but it’s important for esteem and self-actualization since it’s a measure of achievement.

Above is also why you need measures of achievement that are task-relevant

Fear
Fear of failure prevents you from doing something, drops you a need level

Task-relevant maturity
pretty much what it sounds like. it’s per-employee and per-task.
For low TRM, you need to be structured about the task
For med TRM, you can be indiv-oriented, keep clear two way communication, support, etc.
For high TRM, only establish objectives and monitor

Perf revs section --- nothing much here. pros, cons, takeaways as structure. medium for task-relevant feedback

Promotions and comp --- Grove introduces merit based as if it’s hot new shit but idk what the story is here.
caution: routine raises by experience cause overcompensation.
people peter out, make sure to recycle them but let them down easy.

Training is the bosses’ job -- bc it’s their output!

motivation is important, leads to higher performance
can’t ever satisfy hunger.
You can create situations that create motivation
You can’t give someone motivation tablets
You have to create some facade that they believe in so that they will follow it
Old forms of motivation
insert picture of pyramid (hierarchy) 
lower one overrides
physiological - will I die tomorrow?
safety/security - will my state of living maintain or improve?
New forms
Social/Affiliation - Do I have pride in my org, do I have friends at work?
silicon valley tech overemphasizes alignment with company goals. Not for motivation maybe, resolving Complexity Ambiguity
more 
Esteem/Recognition - Am i cool? external coolness, are you valuable to who you care about.
Self-Actualization - Can I create my own dopamine?
Self-Actualization is best, because there is no finish line. All others are comparators to other’s metrics, self-actualization is comparison to your own metric. You have to beat yourself, by winning, you have a harder challenge to face.
competitive metric can fall off, personal competitive
Important metric is output
Performance metrics are valuable for self-actualize
comments, diffs, time in review, time to land, tasks created, tasks closed, SLOC. These are arbitrary things that can be maximized
workaholic prejudice. How do you beat it? Make it a mantra
Sports require religious, overbearing dedication. Create a cult maybe.
TRM is just how good they are at stuff
employee and task
just because ur good at coding in one thing, doesnt mean u r good in others
levels
low - need to give full direction, structured
med - 2way communication, make sure things are working
high - no communication needed, only monitoring to stay updated
Performance review is important
tell them how to optimize.
output measures and internal. Output is external, like sales, things shipped. Internal is like code written, comments made, tasks followed up on.
Need to weight internal things differently than external. Better Engineering is important, as is shipping code.
As a manager, your performance rating can’t be higher than ur org if u r in charge.
Assessment
Level, listen, leave yourself out
pro’s, cons, and takeaways
you need to project your thoughts into their head. They don’t need to agree with you, then need to agree to do what you say
You have to get poor performer to own up to their performance
They Ignore, Deny, Blame others, Assume Responsibility, Find Solution
Commitment to action is acceptable. As before, don’t need to agree
Give review hardcopy in advance, then you both win when you discuss it
Interviewing - there are tons of guides on this. It seems hard to evaluate, because all you have is a piece of paper and their words. Try to find reliable actor to vouch for them.
they just list random interview techniques. there are tons of these online. If you want to interview someone, take time preparing, be direct, and get the answers you want.
When some1 wants to quit, you have to give them what they want
then you have to say that they deserve it
Only if you value them. If you dont, then should still pretend, but let them go. oh no woopsiess.
Money should compromise between performance and experience.
Leveling up gives you more fat cash.
Meets/exceeds
promote at exceeds, maintain at meets. Some people stay at meets. These r nice people. Some people want exceeds. The goal is to get them to the level where they are meets forever, without having them start to underperform
Peter principle
recycle losers respectfully. This seems hard to do and is mentioned offhand.
you need to train constantly and offer courses to improve others. Training courses are hard to make and should be vetted and practiced on experienced members first to fix flaws.
